# Lasagna

I made lasagna today.

## How did I do it
Magic, and beschamel, and fresh pasta. twas good

## Instructions

My brother had made fresh tomato sauce a couple days ago for christmas so I was able to repurpose it and make a fantastic ragu. It was a little on the unsalted side but I threw in a couple pinches, then some 85/15 beef and half a sweet onion. I used half a pound of mozz and made about 2 cups of beschamel sauce. No measurements we guccciiii

## Ingredients

### Ragu
- 2 cans of San Marzano peeled tomatoes
- half a head of garlic, like 4 cloves. the cheap chinese kind of garlic thats mass produced. bless
- a bunch of basil
- salt
- pepper
- 8oz of ground beef 85/15 Kirkland Signature, praying on no H5N1
- half an onion diced

### Beschamel
- About 2-3tbsp of butter
- Equal amount of Flour ~ 2-3tbsp
- milk to where It looks light enough
- salt
- pepper

### Full Lasagn
- Low Moisture Mozz, Im a new yawka
- fresh pasta from Raffetos, Im a new yawka
- more basil

## Assembly

### Ragu
1. sauted the onions, 
2. then added beef and browned it, 
3. then threw in the sauce
4. Seasoned and cooked down

### Beschamel
- Preheat the oven at 350 to not waste gas
1. melt the butter in the pan~ 3tbsp
2. cook the flour for about 1min 
3. pour in a little milk and never stop mixing, adjust the heat as you go to prevent it from clumping toooo bad
4. pour in more milk till it looks right, before its set set, keep whisking and pull it off the heat, it'll finish being super thick whith residual heat.
5. a lil salt and pep

### Assembly
1. little ragu at the bottom of the pan
2. layer:
- pasta
- ragu
- beschamel
- mozz
- basil
3. do that 4 times. with the same on the top

### Bake
1. Bake at 350 for 45 minutes
2. and then pull out let cool for 10 min
3. Dig the FUCK in

## Conclusion

Shit was p good. I enjoyed.

## What to do next time
I put too much cheese I think, or something, and definitely put in a ton of sauce, it was good I liked it, maybe I should throw in some red pepper next time. My brother said it was too cheesy, not enough beschamel and too much basil. I like eating basil in the lasagn like its spinach or some shit, It adds the greens and I love a good wilted green when Im digging into that pizzaiolo type shit.

## Fye
Bet.
