src/app/blog/posts/2025-01-23-Defined-Concepts.md, before:

2025_01_10\_Defined Concepts
Status: #list
Tags: [[Reference]] [[Acculturation]] [[DRY]] [[Principles]] [[Schema-misses]] [[Terms and Concepts]] [[Personal]] [[Self]]

# Remember

# some important [[Terms and Concepts]]
Like a fallacy page, these are things I need to make sure I don't fall into the habit of doing, or things I take effort to make sure I do. Some self-awareness goes little ways.

## Schema-miss
or [Pitfall of Acculturation](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=acculturation+Vonnegut&commit=Search#:~:text=%E2%80%9CNothing%20wrecks%20any,a%20thousand%20times.%E2%80%9D)

Like a [cache miss](https://www.cs.umb.edu/cs641/notes09.html#:~:text=%C2%A0%20cache%20miss%3A%20nothing%20in%20cache%20in%20appropriate%20block%2C%20so%20fetch%20from%20memory), this is what happens when a schema doesn't quite hit right. This is what happens when you learn about something and all of a sudden it doesn't quite fit the definition of what you have. It's usually a ~potentially valid~ practice to throw the whole [schema](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schema_(psychology)) away and start anew hehe. I exaggerate, but like a cache miss, we often do better when we realize, oh we gotta update some shit, instead of acting like the addresses we are looking for are hidden in the exons of the binary. 

In other words, provided the information is straightforward and correct, if the [[schema]] don't fit, you don't a-quit, you go back to the drawing board and figure out where the error is! hehe~ mental debugging a schema-miss.

The thing is, us humans don't just fetch from memory the way a cache does. What we do is we typically [rationalize](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rationalization_(psychology)). So all of that work just goes away. That is why it's important to re-evaluate your schemas periodically, especially when that shit don't fit.

> [“Nothing wrecks any kind of love more effectively than the discovery that your previously acceptable behavior has become ridiculous.” He said in conversation at the 2001 clambake: “If I hadn’t learned how to live without a culture and a society, acculturation would have broken my heart a thousand times.”](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=acculturation+Vonnegut&commit=Search#:~:text=%E2%80%9CNothing%20wrecks%20any,a%20thousand%20times.%E2%80%9D)
> - Kurt Vonnegut, _Timequake_

## Repeating yourself
or [Don't Repeat Yourself](https://cs61a.org/articles/composition/#:~:text=don%27t%20repeat%20yourself)

Naturally try not to repeat yourself. This is especially important in building systems. Abstraction is essential. Repeating your information or having redundant sources of information that are equally maintained can also make trying to reference those things particularly difficult.
In addition and this is just in reference to sourcing, try not to repeat what others have said either unless you can possibly reference where you first heard it too, we lack sourcing as a form of respect in this world. Treat people as knowledgable out of the gate, it tends to work in your and their favor. leading us also to the next.

## you're smart, you'd know
or approaching the reader as a [cognitive apprentice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cognitive_apprenticeship)

This most heavily leads to something I read about creating a natural [Zone of Proximal development](https://www.wested.org/resource/zone-of-proximal-development/) where whoever you are talking to can grasp onto the concepts by just approaching them with the concepts. There is some relation to [Intellectual Bootstrapping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bootstrapping_(linguistics))
but I find it differs in that even without repetition, if the person you are talking to has a grasp of some of the things you are saying, just speaking a little more about it will allow them to grasp more of what you're putting down. And it goes without saying, of course don't just start in the middle. I might be biased, but this is how most of my mentors have taught me, and when I learned the best.

![[Pasted image 20250123160925.png]]

## Design intuitively
or Designing around [desire paths](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Desire_path)

whats the point in using something that goes completely against how I would usually operate. I have so little amount of space in things I want to learn, where it doesn't make sense to add more to the plate. If what I can write or how I can write it can be intuitive, then I better make it intuitive. And I just know that others who use it will be plenty grateful come the time when they need to use it.

## We build on the backs of giants
or a bastardization of [standing on the shoulders of giants](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standing_on_the_shoulders_of_giants)

I use this phrase instead of standing on the shoulders of giants, not because I just want to be a [contrarian](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/contrarian) but because I want to adapt the adage for use as someone who wants to build. Creating, making something of some sort, I think its important to note we can only build thanks to all those before us. No more are the days of stagnation! STAY THE FUCK AWAY! 

Other thoughts. should we? doesn't this mean we lose some knowledge? sure we ship faster but at what fucking cost. at the cost of so much knowledge on the inner workings. We could understand it, so maybe we should.


## Soyez Autonome!
or *Débrouille-toi... Be self sufficient!*

A French adage. It's a common phrase that is used as an imperative when directing young learners in their acquisition of skills. "Please don't ask me, soyez autonome." Figure it out. For some reason from my own experience, which is in no way representative of everyone else's this is far more acceptable in french teaching than in the American situations I found myself in. The slight connotations I noticed that differed with the *Montessori* teaching style, was this is "Be Self-Sufficient", though with guidance. It's very much more about taking responsibility for your own development through your own agency. As always [[#No-one can make you do anything]], so it's important to do things yourself and be proactive.

Being proactive, however was the closest we got to this idea in the English classes, though the French pedagogy was far more "débrouille-toi."

# Some more personal ones

## No-one can make you do anything
or [Free-will maxxing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_will) 

My mom taught me from a young age that no-one can make you do anything, and I found this a great reminder to myself to keep myself in check. If I don't like the situation, I can leave. And if I can't then I'll deal with the consequences after I've left. Then again, I do like picking up some responsibilities sometimes, so all this while living in your own code of ethics.

## Romanticize your life
or _Something else I know it's out there_

I don't know where I saw this before but I know that its not an original thought. It is so important to take the time to create and to channel the beauty that you can observe in the world into something that you can experience. Oh what an art form.

## [[Bokonism]]
from *[Cat’s Cradle](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cat%27s_Cradle)* 

There are plenty of important terms defined here. I’ll list a couple but for the rest, please see the main page!
- Karass: Your squad knowingly or unknowingly
- Duprass: Squad of two, often in love
- Granfalloon: False Karass, like alumni from a same uni, etc.

## [[Schema-Switching]]
_see the main article at [[Schema-Switching]]_

Well Well Well. Similar to Code switching, this actually affects the ways you are going to respond to specific instructions or different situations. This is analogous to how we set up Models as [[Mixture of Experts]]




---
# References

Commit message:

adding favicon, because why wasn't it working before

src/app/blog/posts/2025-01-23-Defined-Concepts.md, after:

2025_01_10\_Defined Concepts
Status: #list
Tags: [[Reference]] [[Acculturation]] [[DRY]] [[Principles]] [[Schema-misses]] [[Terms and Concepts]] [[Personal]] [[Self]]

# Remember

# some important [[Terms and Concepts]]
Like a fallacy page, these are things I need to make sure I don't fall into the habit of doing, or things I take effort to make sure I do. Some self-awareness goes little ways.

## Schema-miss
or [Pitfall of Acculturation](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=acculturation+Vonnegut&commit=Search#:~:text=%E2%80%9CNothing%20wrecks%20any,a%20thousand%20times.%E2%80%9D)

Like a [cache miss](https://www.cs.umb.edu/cs641/notes09.html#:~:text=%C2%A0%20cache%20miss%3A%20nothing%20in%20cache%20in%20appropriate%20block%2C%20so%20fetch%20from%20memory), this is what happens when a schema doesn't quite hit right. This is what happens when you learn about something and all of a sudden it doesn't quite fit the definition of what you have. It's usually a ~potentially valid~ practice to throw the whole [schema](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schema_(psychology)) away and start anew hehe. I exaggerate, but like a cache miss, we often do better when we realize, oh we gotta update some shit, instead of acting like the addresses we are looking for are hidden in the exons of the binary. 

In other words, provided the information is straightforward and correct, if the [[schema]] don't fit, you don't a-quit, you go back to the drawing board and figure out where the error is! hehe~ mental debugging a schema-miss.

The thing is, us humans don't just fetch from memory the way a cache does. What we do is we typically [rationalize](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rationalization_(psychology)). So all of that work just goes away. That is why it's important to re-evaluate your schemas periodically, especially when that shit don't fit.

> [“Nothing wrecks any kind of love more effectively than the discovery that your previously acceptable behavior has become ridiculous.” He said in conversation at the 2001 clambake: “If I hadn’t learned how to live without a culture and a society, acculturation would have broken my heart a thousand times.”](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=acculturation+Vonnegut&commit=Search#:~:text=%E2%80%9CNothing%20wrecks%20any,a%20thousand%20times.%E2%80%9D)
> - Kurt Vonnegut, _Timequake_

## Repeating yourself
or [Don't Repeat Yourself](https://cs61a.org/articles/composition/#:~:text=don%27t%20repeat%20yourself)

Naturally try not to repeat yourself. This is especially important in building systems. Abstraction is essential. Repeating your information or having redundant sources of information that are equally maintained can also make trying to reference those things particularly difficult.
In addition and this is just in reference to sourcing, try not to repeat what others have said either unless you can possibly reference where you first heard it too, we lack sourcing as a form of respect in this world. Treat people as knowledgable out of the gate, it tends to work in your and their favor. leading us also to the next.

## you're smart, you'd know
or approaching the reader as a [cognitive apprentice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cognitive_apprenticeship)

This most heavily leads to something I read about creating a natural [Zone of Proximal development](https://www.wested.org/resource/zone-of-proximal-development/) where whoever you are talking to can grasp onto the concepts by just approaching them with the concepts. There is some relation to [Intellectual Bootstrapping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bootstrapping_(linguistics))
but I find it differs in that even without repetition, if the person you are talking to has a grasp of some of the things you are saying, just speaking a little more about it will allow them to grasp more of what you're putting down. And it goes without saying, of course don't just start in the middle. I might be biased, but this is how most of my mentors have taught me, and when I learned the best.

![[Pasted image 20250123160925.png]]

## Design intuitively
or Designing around [desire paths](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Desire_path)

whats the point in using something that goes completely against how I would usually operate. I have so little amount of space in things I want to learn, where it doesn't make sense to add more to the plate. If what I can write or how I can write it can be intuitive, then I better make it intuitive. And I just know that others who use it will be plenty grateful come the time when they need to use it.

## We build on the backs of giants
or a bastardization of [standing on the shoulders of giants](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standing_on_the_shoulders_of_giants)

I use this phrase instead of standing on the shoulders of giants, not because I just want to be a [contrarian](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/contrarian) but because I want to adapt the adage for use as someone who wants to build. Creating, making something of some sort, I think its important to note we can only build thanks to all those before us. No more are the days of stagnation! STAY THE FUCK AWAY! 

Other thoughts. should we? doesn't this mean we lose some knowledge? sure we ship faster but at what fucking cost. at the cost of so much knowledge on the inner workings. We could understand it, so maybe we should.


## Soyez Autonome!
or *Débrouille-toi... Be self sufficient!*

A French adage. It's a common phrase that is used as an imperative when directing young learners in their acquisition of skills. "Please don't ask me, soyez autonome." Figure it out. For some reason from my own experience, which is in no way representative of everyone else's this is far more acceptable in french teaching than in the American situations I found myself in. The slight connotations I noticed that differed with the *Montessori* teaching style, was this is "Be Self-Sufficient", though with guidance. It's very much more about taking responsibility for your own development through your own agency. As always [[#No-one can make you do anything]], so it's important to do things yourself and be proactive.

Being proactive, however was the closest we got to this idea in the English classes, though the French pedagogy was far more "débrouille-toi."

# Some more personal ones

## No-one can make you do anything
or [Free-will maxxing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_will) 

My mom taught me from a young age that no-one can make you do anything, and I found this a great reminder to myself to keep myself in check. If I don't like the situation, I can leave. And if I can't then I'll deal with the consequences after I've left. Then again, I do like picking up some responsibilities sometimes, so all this while living in your own code of ethics.

## Romanticize your life
or _Something else I know it's out there_

I don't know where I saw this before but I know that its not an original thought. It is so important to take the time to create and to channel the beauty that you can observe in the world into something that you can experience. Oh what an art form.

## Bokonism
from *[Cat’s Cradle](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cat%27s_Cradle)*  and main page at [[Bokonism]]

There are plenty of important terms defined here. I’ll list a couple but for the rest, please see the main page!
- Karass: Your squad knowingly or unknowingly
- Duprass: Squad of two, often in love
- Granfalloon: False Karass, like alumni from a same uni, etc.

## Schema-Switching
_see the main article at [[Schema-Switching]]_

Well Well Well. Similar to Code switching, this actually affects the ways you are going to respond to specific instructions or different situations. This is analogous to how we set up Models as [[Mixture of Experts]]

## SWORM
_or Schema vieW Of the Reality Manifold_
_see the main article at [[SWORM]]_

Schema World View Of The Reality Manifold. This is a weird high dimensional [[Manifold]] that we find ourselves living in. and everyone going through this damn manifold, yes even the animals and the insects and the bacteria have their own too. Even the trees, the fungi and the rocks. They all have their mark on their world, and written in their engravings, their experience with the world viewed through their own [[Schema]], no matter how complex and how simple they may be, oh how arbitrary are the qualifiers! What is even complex and what is simple if they are both incomplete views and made of different, discrete, and infinitesimally small pieces which might all rely on something that exists in so many high dimensions that we couldn't possibly figure out what it was. Anyways. Theres more to write, more to discuss, what an interesting concept.

## There is no goal
_or Man is Condemned to be Free_

There is no goal to life, Remember this. Internalize it.
Because this will set you free!

---
# References
